1. What are the different types of machine learning?
    supervised
        trained using labeled dataset
    unsupervised
        trained with unlabeled dataset
        tasekd with finding patterns, anomolies, and relationships
    Reinforcement learning
        Markov decision process
        s,a,r,s',a'

2. What is Overfitting and how can you avoid it?
    overfitting occurs when a model starts to learn the non-generalized details of a training set
    one can avoid overfitting by
        regularization techniques 
            such as L1 and L2 regularization which penalizes a network for having large weights.
        making a simple model
    
3. What is a "training set" and "test set" in a machine learning model? How much data will you allocate for your training, validation, and test sets?
    trainig set
        data used to train the model, usually around 75%-80% of data set
    validation set
        used to catch overfitting occuring, 15% - 10%
    test set
        used to test the model, use around 5-10%

4. How do you handle missing or corrupted data in a dataset?
    drop those rows or cols, or replace

5. How can you choose a classifier based on a training set data size?
    involves balancing bias-variance trade-off
    small training dataset
        risk of overfitting is high bc model has less data to generalize frame
        want high bias low variance
            model may not perfectly fit training data but will generalize better
            higher overfitting will help combat high bias
        recommended classifiers:
            naive bayes, logistic regession, linear SVM, K-Nearest neighbors
    medium training dataset
        explore more complex models that balance bias and variance
        recommended classifiers:
            decision trees, random forests, support vector machines, gradient boostins machines
    large training dataset
        more flexibility to use complex models that can capture intricate relationships in the data
        since more data, risk of overfitting decreases
        low bias and high variance models can perform well
            high-variance models (deep nn, decision trees) tend to overfit small datasets by learning not only the true patterns but noise too. However, with a large dataset, there's much more information for the model to learn from, and the prescence of noise becomes proportionally smaller. As a result the models tendency to overfit decreases
        recommended classifiers
            nn, random forests, and gradient boosting

6. explain the confusion matrix w.r.t ML algorithms
    x-axis, y-axis = actual, predicted categories
    across the diagnol is accuracy

7. what are false positives and false negative and how are they significant?
    false positives
        predicted = true, actual = false
    false negatives
        predicted = false, actual = true
    significant bc they're incorrect classifications

8. Three stages of building a model in ml?
    1. model building
    2. model testing
    3. applying model

9. what is deep learning
    a subset of ml that uses several layer of neurons in their neural networks
    feature engineering is done manually in ml, while in deep learning the model will determine which features to and not to use

10. what are the applications of supervised machine learning in modern businesses?
    email spam detection, sentiment analysis, fraud detection

11. what is semi-supervised machine learning?
    small amount of labeled data and large amount of unlabeled data

12. what are some unsupervised machine learning 
    two techniques: clustering and association

13. Diff between supervised and unsupervised ml?
    supervised uses a labeled training set and make future predictions as output
    unsupervised uses unlabeled and finds patterns in the data without guidance

14. Diff between inductive ML and deductive ML?
    inductive - observes instances based on defined principles to draw a conclusion
    deductive - draws conclusions based on experiences

15. K-means vs KNN # TODO

16. What is naive in the naive bayes classifier? # TODO

17. explain how a system can play a game of chess using RL
    use Deep-Q network
    nn learns to assign values to similar chess states based on some sort of reward system such as winning or losing a game

19. How will you know which ML algo to choose for your classification problem?
    if accuracy is a concern, try different algorithms and cross validate
    if dataset is small, choose simple models with high bias and low variance
        we want to underfit the data a little bit so that our model does better generalization
    if dataset is large, choose complex models with low bias and high variance
        since our dataset is large, the complex models will have enough detail to not overfit

20. How is Amazon able to recommend other things to buy? how does the recommendation engine work?
    amazon keeps track of your purchases and uses an unsupervised association algorithm

21. When will you use classifiction over regression?
    you use classification when you want to sort an input into discrete categories
    you use regression when you want to predict a continuous number from an input

22. How do you design an email spam filter?
    need a labeled training set of spam and ham.
    use naive bayes model to make predictions

23. what is a random forest?
    machine learning algo that is primarily used for classification and regression tasks.
    operates by constructing multiple decision trees during training and outputting either the mode of the classes (for classification) or the mean prediction (for regression) of the individual trees.
    
24. considering a long list of machine learning algorithms, given a data set, how do you decide which one to use?
    choosing a machine learning algorithm depends heavily on the size of the data set. For smaller datasets, simple algorithms with high bias and low varaince are preferred. For larger datasets, complex algorithm with low bias and high variance are preferred as they can caputure more features without overfitting heavily to the dataset.

    is data conitnuouos or discrete?
    classifcation associating, clustering, or regression?
    labeled, unlabaled, mixed dataset?
    goal?

27. Define Precision and Recall
    Precision = True Positive / (True positive + False Positive)
        accuracy of positive predictions
    Recall = True Positive / (True positive + False Negative)
        models ability to find all positive instances

28. What is a Decision Tree Classification?
    supervised machine learning algorithm used for classiciation and regression tasks
    flowchart like structure where each internal node represents a decision based on a feature.